[Music]
okay bright cider riddle me this can
airplanes fly with only one wing or can
they reach supersonic speeds still with
a single wing if you answered no to both
and you're in for a surprise there's
still so much you probably don't know
about airplanes and yeah neither did I
until today
let's review my list shall we one can
airplanes avoid hitting birds mid-flight
technically they can't poor birdies
accidents happen and sometimes planes
must make an emergency landing because a
bird smacked into the windshield or got
itself into one of the engines but this
is usually the case during takeoff or
landing since birds don't fly at the
airplane cruising altitudes unless
they're wearing oxygen masks or
something measures taken at the airports
to prevent collisions include loud sound
such as shooting blanks into the air to
scare off the birds from the runway or
even specially trained birds of prey who
bully the other birds so that airplanes
can take off safely too how can a plane
get struck by lightning and still
continue its flight normally after it's
hit by lightning an airplane is sent for
inspection but it can still safely
complete its current flight the fuselage
conducts electricity well enough and
like with a lightning rod the Zap will
most probably strike one of the tips of
the airplane either one of the wings or
the nose then it seeks the ground but
doesn't find it so it exits from the
tail it's easier for electricity to roll
through the surface of the plane than go
inside so people on board are safe from
its effects still lightning is powerful
and there can be some damage done to the
airplane on the outside three can the
airplanes equipment be disrupted by
mobile phones the short answer is no the
longer answer is No
yeah your device can't make any of the
plane's electronics malfunction but
there's a catch if you owned a
smartphone about five years ago you
might remember that weird noise coming
out of any speakers around you when
someone called you this normally doesn't
happen with modern devices but the
danger is still there
imagine a pilot trying to make out what
the control is saying and all they hear
is static because someone hasn't turned
on the airplane mode I wouldn't like to
be on the same plane hey speaking of
which four what does airplane mode do
exactly it might seem some sort of a
magical button that allows you to keep
your phone turned on during the flight
but all it does is just cut any radio
transmission cellular or Bluetooth you
aren't likely to get reception at 30,000
feet anyway but it can be important
during takeoff and landing when you
still got signal and today the airplane
mode is more flexible to allowing Wi-Fi
to work onboard that's why you can
connect to the onboard entertainment
system even with everything else turned
off five is it really a must to keep the
window covers open during takeoff and
landing
absolutely and yes most incidents happen
exactly at these times so flight
attendants need to have the clearest
view possible with window screens open
they have better lighting inside can see
if anything goes wrong outside and the
ground crew can also notice if something
happens onboard in case of emergency
rescuers should also be able to see
inside for people trapped in the cabin
so only clothes that cover when you have
safely climbed to unfathomable heights
that you can't escape anyway number six
why are some contrails so short-lived
while others stay in the sky for a long
time contrails are a lot like clouds
they appear from a wider condensing high
up jet engines burn fuel emitting co2
and water vapor as well as other gases
some of them allow wider particles to
collect around themselves creating water
droplets and becoming visible from the
ground
if it's already humid up there then
there's more wider and the contrail is
more prominent and if it's cold the
droplets might turn into ice staying
behind for a much longer time seven why
aren't there supersonic passenger
airplanes well there used to be two of
them in the past but both turned out to
be unprofitable and dangerous the
British and French Concorde and the
Russian tu-144 charger were the only
commercial airplanes who have broken the
sound barrier in the 20th century they
were thought to be the future of civil
aviation but the cost turned out to be
just too high and a series of crashes
sealed the fate of both supersonic jets
8yr pilots and flight attendants
seatbelts so different from passenger
ones well unlike passengers flight
attendants don't have armrests or even
comfortable enough cushions to sit on
all they have are small foldable seats
near the galley
that's why they need not only a seat
belt like yours but a shoulder strap as
well also in an emergency flight
attendants have to be able to coordinate
evacuation so they have this extra
protection as for the pilots they have a
five-point harness that keeps them
firmly in their seats this allows them
to control the plane even when it's
rocking and swaying like crazy not that
it's gonna rock and sway like crazy on
your flight hmm
nine white is traveling by car feel
faster than by airplane well going 70
miles per hour on an interstate makes
you feel the drive and excitement of
speed flying it nearly 600 miles per
hour makes you drowsy at best this is
because you don't really feel the actual
speed of anything you can only see how
fast you're moving relative to other
objects the closer the faster in a car
everything's close to you so you can see
trees people houses and other cars
zapping past you on board an airplane
everything's so far away that it seems
to go at a snail's pace number 10
how many wings does an airplane have
every commercial airplane you've been on
has only one wing the first planes were
called biplanes because they had two
wings one on the top and the other going
through the bottom of the fuselage they
were connected by struts and wires which
made a kind of box that basically kept
the craft from falling apart in the air
it was necessary at lower speeds that
early planes could only muster but as
the engines increased in power the
second wing became redundant the one
remaining wing still serves as a support
for the whole structure though 11 how
can you drink your coffee on board a
plane and not have it spilled when it
banks well there are forces at work on
an airplane that don't allow passengers
to feel all the moves the aircraft
performs when it banks it applies a
certain force to itself so that it feels
like you're being pressed down not to
the side a simple example if you take a
half-filled glass of water hold it in
your outstretched hand and spin around
fast enough you'll see the water
crawling the side of the glass at some
point you can technically achieve enough
spin to turn the glass to the side
without spilling a single drop you'd
better not try it though the vertigo is
terrible by the way if you know the
exact name of this special force leave
your guests in the comments below
12 why can't airplanes go to space seems
pretty illogical for something that can
fly at enormous altitudes to be able to
fly even higher right not really
you see planes depend on air to fly
because their wings generate lift thanks
to it the higher you climb the thinner
the air becomes until you simply run out
of it altogether and the thinner the air
the more speed and aircraft needs to
keep the altitude so when there's no
wear wings generate no more left and the
airplane simply stalls 13 why is there
turbulence sometimes even when the sky
is clear clouds especially thunderheads
can indicate that an area of turbulence
is ahead but sometimes a clear air
turbulence occurs
a plane can drop a whole bunch and start
shaking without any warning it happens
when two bodies of air clash at very
high speeds and it's invisible so the
pilots can't tell when it would happen
the chances of getting into an area of
clear air turbulence are higher at low
altitudes over mountain ranges and near
the jet stream by the way
number 14 what is a jet stream well
there are several extremely fast rivers
of air high up in the atmosphere of our
planet weather systems are also
controlled by jet streams they move in
strange ways but have a constant flow
allowing passenger aircraft to sometimes
use them when an airplane comes close to
a jet stream it may adjust to the
direction of its current and fly a lot
faster
propelled by the flow many airlines use
this to their advantage to cut the costs
of fuel and make air traveling even
faster 15 how can airplanes fly if one
engine fails well first things first
an airplane can only fly with one failed
engine if it's already in the air it
can't take off in this condition and it
won't
while mid-flight though the single
remaining engine will give the aircraft
enough thrust to continue moving forward
it will tend to turn to the failed side
but the pilot can straighten it up by
pushing to the other
besides the airplanes nose doesn't even
need to face straight forward to fly in
that direction and can be a little
crooked while still continuing on its
route 16 what is the yellow fixture on
the airplanes wings looking at the
window on the plane's wing you can see a
small yellow double hook on it it seems
strange since it might mess with
aerodynamics but it's there for your
safety in case of an emergency landing
these hooks are used to secure ropes
that help passengers exit the plane via
the wing if they're slippery the rope
will help you keep your footing and not
fall over while climbing around hey if
you learn something new today then give
the video a like and share it with a
friend and here are some other videos I
think you'll enjoy just click to the
left or right and remember stay on the
bright side of life